Docs: update the introduction, add the rest_api tutorial (#1729)
dlt-hub/dlt: docs/website/docs/intro.md

import snippets from '!!raw-loader!./intro-snippets.py';

# Getting started

![dlt pacman](/img/dlt-pacman.gif)

## What is dlt?

dlt is an open-source Python library that loads data from various, often messy data sources into well-structured, live datasets. It offers a lightweight interface for extracting data from [REST APIs](./tutorial/rest-api), [SQL databases](./tutorial/sql-database), [cloud storage](./tutorial/filesystem), [Python data structures](getting-started), and [many more](./dlt-ecosystem/verified-sources).

dlt is designed to be easy to use, flexible, and scalable:

- dlt infers [schemas](./general-usage/schema) and [data types](./general-usage/schema/#data-types), [normalizes the data](./general-usage/schema/#data-normalizer), and handles nested data structures.

> - dlt supports variety of [popular destinations](./dlt-ecosystem/destinations/) and has an interface to add [custom destinations](./dlt-ecosystem/destinations/destination) to create reverse ETL pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dlt supports a variety of [popular destinations](./dlt-ecosystem/destinations/) and has an interface to add [custom destinations](./dlt-ecosystem/destinations/destination) to create reverse ETL pipelines.
```

> - Use dlt locally or [in the cloud](./walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline) to build data pipelines, data lakes, and data warehouses. Run it on [Airflow](./walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline/deploy-with-airflow-composer), [serverless functions](./walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline/deploy-with-google-cloud-functions), or [Jupyter notebooks and colabs](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1NfSB1DpwbbHX9_t5vlalBTf13utwpMGx?usp=sharing). No external APIs, backends, or containers are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- dlt can be deployed anywhere Python runs, be it on [Airflow](./walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline/deploy-with-airflow-composer, [serverless functions](./walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline/deploy-with-google-cloud-functions) or any other cloud deployment of your choice.
```

Reviewer: just tried to shorten it a bit because it's very long otherwise

- dlt supports variety of [popular destinations](./dlt-ecosystem/destinations/) and has an interface to add [custom destinations](./dlt-ecosystem/destinations/destination) to create reverse ETL pipelines.
- Use dlt locally or [in the cloud](./walkthroughs/deploy-a-pipeline) to build data pipelines, data lakes, and data warehouses.

To get started with dlt, install the library using pip:

```sh
pip install dlt
```
:::tip
We recommend using a clean virtual environment for your experiments! Here are [detailed instructions](/reference/installation) on how to set up one.
:::

## Load data with dlt from …

<Tabs
  groupId="source-type"
  defaultValue="rest-api"
  values={[
    {"label": "REST APIs", "value": "rest-api"},
    {"label": "SQL databases", "value": "sql-database"},
    {"label": "Cloud storages or files", "value": "filesystem"},
    {"label": "Python data structures", "value": "python-data"},
]}>
  <TabItem value="rest-api">

Use dlt's [REST API source](tutorial/rest-api) to extract data from any REST API. Define API endpoints you’d like to fetch data from, pagination method and authentication and dlt will handle the rest:

```py

> # from dlt.sources import rest_api

Reviewer: why are these commented out?

Author: This was before we moved the rest_api source to the core so I commented it for docs tests to pass

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="filesystem">

[Filesystem](./tutorial/filesystem) source extracts data from AWS S3, Google Cloud Storage, Google Drive, Azure, or a local file system.

```py
# from dlt.sources.filesystem import filesystem

source = filesystem(
    bucket_url="s3://example-bucket",
    file_glob="*.csv"
)

pipeline = dlt.pipeline(
    pipeline_name="filesystem_example",
    destination="duckdb",
    dataset_name="filesystem_data",
)

load_info = pipeline.run(source)
```

Follow the [filesystem source tutorial](./tutorial/filesystem) to learn more about the source configuration and supported storage services.

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="python-data">

dlt is able to load data from Python generators or directly from Python data structures:

```py
import dlt

@dlt.resource
def foo():
    for i in range(10):
        yield {"id": i, "name": f"This is item {i}"}

pipeline = dlt.pipeline(
    pipeline_name="python_data_example",
    destination="duckdb",
)

load_info = pipeline.run(foo)
```

Check out the [getting started guide](getting-started) to learn more about working with Python data.

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ## Why use dlt?

Author: True

> ## Why use dlt?

Author: Done in 2393f9d3480823fa051a533c1eadd767a3420617 could you please check?

- User-friendly, declarative interface that removes knowledge obstacles for beginners
while empowering senior professionals.

> ## Getting started with dlt

Reviewer: Just a note to revisit these steps after we finalise the structure of the docs
